# SoftwareArt-MashUp
### Assignment 1 -- Assemblage
#### [Website](https://daniaezz.github.io/SoftwareArt-MashUp/)
#### [Source Code](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1EmQIgFCO1bzn7_m6aMpgYdkqJF9tx9vi?usp=sharing)
---

This idea first started out by trying to generate more verses of the children rhyme “The Duck Song”.  As I analysed the rhyme, I realised the striking similarity in the way the song rhymes just as the song I was listening to at the time, “All I want” by Kodaline, did. This then led me to try and create more versus of the song. However, as I re-watched class recordings, the idea of mashing up the top 10 songs every week was mentioned in one of the recordings. From there stemmed the idea to mash up two songs together. As I thought of different ways to combine two songs together, I remembered the duck song, which was the initial idea for this project, where every line rhymed with the other. From there I started looking into how I could combine two songs using rhymes. I stumbled upon the pronouncing library, which helped me execute the idea I had in mind. 

I wanted the output to be more dynamic and include some interactivity from the user, hence I made it in such a way that the URLs that are parsed can be generated depending on the user input. After the generation of the URLs, the algorithm uses requests to get the URL, the output for that block will indicate whether or not there was an error in getting the URLs. The next block of code checks if the lyrics are available on the website, www.lyricsondemand.com, which was used for parsing throughout this project. The code also checks if the lyrics are eligible for scraping // and notifies the user by printing an error message if its unable to extract them and prints the lyrics if the scraping was successful. the program then splits the extracted lyrics by line, in the same way they were separated on the website. As the website also contains empty lines and lines indicating which part of the song it is like [Chorus], the program gets rid of those before proceeding to the next block of code. The next step is to separate the lines by word to be able to get the last word of every line. If the last word in a line is empty space, the code takes the second last word as the last word instead. The final block of code iterates over the list of last words from the first songs and gets a list of rhyming words using pronouncing and checks if any of the rhyming words match with the last words from the second song. As songs contain a lot of repeated lines, the code then filters the final output so there are no duplicates and then prints the generated text. 

Overall I really enjoyed working on this project and I believe the output kind of mimics poetry in a way and has potential to even become a song of its own. It was fun experimenting what the output between two unrelated songs will be.

